I have a question. This year I'm 20 years old, and
all my friends my age have already fallen in
love. It's not just
teenage love, but love that
involves sex, teacher. This will
affect their studies and future careers. They're constantly on their
phones during class, texting and flirting,
calling each other "husband," "wife," "spouse,"
as if they're already married. They skip classes
to go out, and going to motels is
very common.
Parents don't know anything about it, thinking
their children are studying hard,
but they ask for double or triple the tuition fee
to spend money on their outings. I'm
very worried because my best friend is doing the same thing.
Teacher, please give us
some advice:
should we be in a relationship at our age? And if
we are, how should we have a
beautiful relationship? Thank you, teacher.
Thank you, Duc Anh.
[Applause]
It's called a school-related problem, isn't it? This
problem involves students having a lot of contact
with the system.  Because of the
internet, it's within yourselves that
you are driven by the
Buddhist thought that
what gives birth to us humans
is karma. Within
that karma is the karma of lust.
If there were no karma of lust,
we wouldn't be born as human beings,
nor as sentient beings, except for those who have attained enlightenment, those who have vowed to
save sentient beings.
They travel through thought, do
you understand? Those who travel through thought
will have their thoughts overcome their own feelings. They
can use thought
to purify this body.
Those who lack
great thoughts will be controlled by this body,
and this body includes
satisfactions like eating, sleeping, urinating, defecating,
and lust. Do you understand? This
belongs to the realm of the body; the body's impulses
control the mind. The
body's hunger
can cause the mind to steal
food—all serving the body.
Seeing a beautiful car and wanting a
beautiful car—you might think this is just your thought,
but it's not.  It's the
sensations of the body that drive the formation of
thoughts, my friends. You see someone and
feel a strong attraction, but two things
happen: one is the thought, and the other is the body's
impulse. Today, I'm going to introduce you to
Buddhist teachings in a slightly deeper way
so you can understand when
you are
being controlled by your thoughts and when your body is controlling you, giving rise to those thoughts.
Do you understand this point? When you see a girl and
feel love and longing, that's when the
power of lust is controlling you,
giving rise to feelings of love. When
you see someone who is academically successful and
morally upright, that's when you're using your
intellect to love. You see, love
originates from both sides: thought and the
body, which is in control. Do you understand?
We're discussing the issue of
lust leading to
love. In Buddhism,
lust completely dominates a person. People with
strong lust control everything; they find it
difficult to control their actions because
they lack thought and
self-restraint.  It's
very
difficult for people like that to succeed. Those who have an
uncontrollable, untamed urge within them will find it
hard to achieve
great things. Today, I'm talking about
how to view karma so you can
understand a person. If you can
control yourself with your thoughts, you
will win. When you
decide to do something, you understand this point. You won't win even before you decide to do it.
We
just need to set a good thought for ourselves
and use that thought to win.
But some people, when they enter
a body, demand something, they
immediately watch movies, they immediately look for
ways to win, and sometimes they don't win. They might rape someone, or they'll rush into a relationship
as soon as they confess their love. If they don't love someone, they wo
n't
show affection; if they don't give themselves to someone, they can't
prove their feelings to them.
What kind of people are those women at that time? They
are people who can't control
their emotions; they are dominated by
animal instincts. In each of
us, there's a part animal and a part human.
When a person's sense of self becomes
too dominant and possessive, their
animal instincts and human instincts
disappear. Remember, when we're too hungry,
we might kill to steal,
to eat. Their survival instinct is just that—
survival instinct. Have you
observed two very close dogs in a house?
When they have a bone, do they
fight? No, they don't. That shows how
animals are heavily influenced by
their own instincts. Humans, on the other hand, are controlled by their
thoughts—their own instincts.
That's why some people have
more of the animalistic part than the human part.
You see,
that's a saying
often used in Buddhism: "The animalistic part is more, the human part is
less." The
human part is more, the animalistic part is less.
It means that greed and anger are reduced,
becoming thinner. So, if you
only think about love, only about
satisfying your own physical desires,
that person will find it very difficult to succeed, because
whatever they think about, it's all focused on the animalistic part.
This body alone is enough; how can they eat properly,
worry, sleep soundly,
or satisfy their desires? They are
easily angered because the desires
controlled by their body are not satisfied, so
they become angry. For example,
a man who is attracted to women
is also heavily influenced by his body. Do
you understand this? Falling in love with a
woman is also heavily influenced by his body.
Although he says, "
I have feelings for someone else, I
love someone else more than my wife,"
his love also stems from
the feelings in his body that he doesn't
realize. Do you understand this? Now, I will
analyze this in more detail for you. If
their animalistic side diminishes, they will
think about family, responsibility,
honor. Responsibility and honor are located in
what part of their mind? The thought, the mindset, the
thinking? But they abandon all of that. They say, "
I'm more compatible with this person." That's
selfishness. With the human side diminished, I
hope that when you come to
this question, you will purify yourselves and your minds.  You need to be a
little more self-controlled. I will teach
you how to control yourself when you are hungry. When you are truly
hungry and facing others,
let others eat first to
develop your human side and reduce your
animalistic side. We will be able to control our desires. Do
you understand? That's a
small thing when you're hungry. Let others eat
first; don't steal food before others do.
That's the
second part of cultivation. When you crave
something, for example, you're too sleepy, you can lie
down and sleep right away, but look around and see how
many people are sleepy. Choose a place
for others to sleep and sleep later.
You will reduce your animalistic side and increase your human side. Do
you understand?
Wherever you go, you
should do this. When you're traveling, you should
let others sit and stand so that
your animalistic side decreases and your human side increases. That means
you control your body,
your thoughts develop,
your intellect develops. That's how
you control your desires.
So when you reach the Buddha realm, you will have
the ability to consider when you love, when you engage in lustful acts, you
will...  What will happen to us?
What will happen to our family? That means our thoughts
will be full of vitality. So, to answer
this,
I will analyze for you that in each of
us there is an animalistic part and a human
part. Our task is to
recognize the animalistic part. I'm talking about the animalistic part.
So, a person who beats their wife or is cruel is
called a
beast, right?
We must reduce our animalistic nature. There is
an
animalistic part within us; we must
eliminate that animalistic part from ourselves. Only then will
we have less lust. Just like
that, lust will decrease. Respectfully, to those who practice spiritual discipline, for example,
monks and nuns, when they
cultivate their human side,
loving, sharing, and contributing, naturally the
lustful part is completely eradicated. There will be no more feelings,
desires, or lustful thoughts. They will
see a man and know him; they will see a
woman and know her; they will see a
man and know what he needs so they can
help him improve, without the
animalistic eye, the possessive part.
That means seeing a
person from the South, that person must be mine;
seeing a person from the North, that person must be
mine. It's not that quick-witted.
People call it love in the outside world,
but in Buddhism, it's
called the animalistic part, which is too dominant.
If love is built on happiness,
on career, on contemplative thinking, then
that love has the nature
of a human being. If that love
contains filial piety and
loyalty, then it will have the nature
of a human being. But if love is just lust, then
it is very much the animalistic part. I'll just
say this to you: a mother hen gives birth
to a chick, which is a rooster.
Does the rooster mate with the mother hen? A mother hen gives birth to a chick, but
the chick is a rooster. When the rooster
grows up, does it mate with the mother hen? A
mother dog gives birth to a puppy, does the puppy
mate with the mother dog when it grows up?
So the animalistic part does
n't distinguish between
parents, spouse, and children; it doesn't have any
noble thoughts at all.  No, that's
why someone who sleeps with one person and then
goes to sleep with another has too
much of an animalistic side, too little intelligence, too little thought, and
can't control themselves. So,
girls, when your boyfriend says, "I
love you," he should remember to keep you until
you're his, with a clear marriage certificate,
registered, then we'll be
together. That's carrying the full
love of a father, a mother, and everyone. So
while we're studying,
don't dig deep to steal the animalistic side of
others, but steal the human side,
understood? So we must
awaken the human side in ourselves,
awaken the human side in others, don't
dig deep the animalistic side in ourselves to
combine with the animalistic side of others. That's
my answer to your question. As for those who
like to use their animalistic side, just ignore them.
If they use their animalistic side, just ignore them.
I can only advise and help you
understand so that you can stay away from them,
okay?
[Applause]
[Music] K [
Music]